add opentelemetry env specific setup (#9529)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/_index.md

> ### Ingesting OpenTelemetry Traces with the Collector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ingesting OpenTelemetry traces with the collector
```

> The OpenTelemetry Collector is configured by adding a [pipeline][8] to your `otel-collector-configuration.yml` file. Supply the relative path to this configuration file when you start the collector by passing it in via the `--config=<path/to/configuration_file>` command line argument. For examples of supplying a configuration file, see the [environment specific setup](#environent-specific-setup) section below or the [OpenTelemetry Collector documentation][9].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector is configured by adding a [pipeline][8] to your `otel-collector-configuration.yml` file. Supply the relative path to this configuration file when you start the collector by passing it in via the `--config=<path/to/configuration_file>` command line argument. For examples of supplying a configuration file, see the [environment specific setup](#environment-specific-setup) section below or the [OpenTelemetry Collector documentation][9].
```

      exporters: [datadog/api]
```

### Environment Specific Setup

> #### Host:

Reviewer 3: I think we should just say that they can use any of the contrib packages from the project repository latest release here and maybe have an example template. How to run the binary and the CLI interface should be on the OpenTelemetry docs.

- Download the appropriate binary from [the project repository latest release](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/releases/latest).

> - Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. Here is an example template to get started. It enables the collector's otlp receiver and datadog exporter.

Reviewer: "Here is an example" Should we have a link to a sample? Which sample do you have in mind?
```suggestion
- Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. Here is an example template to get started. It enables the collector's `otlp` receiver and the Datadog exporter.
```
or OTLP? are you using "otlp" as a code keyword or as an adjective?

Author: it should be, i believe  `OTLP`  which stands for `OpenTelemetry Protocol`

- https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/master/text/0035-opentelemetry-protocol.md#opentelemetry-protocol-specification

will update

- Run on the host with the configration yaml file set via the `--config` parameter. For example,

  ```

>     curl -L https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/releases/latest/download/otelcontribcol_linux_amd64 | otelcontribcol_linux_amd64 --config otel_collector_config.yaml

Reviewer: If they downloaded the binary, they wouldn't use `curl` right?

Author: yup good catch. this was combining downloading the release and running it...will remove the `curl` bit to make it more clear.

  ```

> #### Docker

Reviewer 3: I think we can mostly get rid of this section and just link here instead: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#docker, making clear that we are present in the **contrib** flavor.

I don't think we should teach people how to use Docker or how to use the OpenTelemetry Collector in Datadog docs, we should keep this for Datadog specific configuration

Author: These sections are quite misleading (note the `kill $pid1; docker stop otelcol
` at the end of the docker command, for example) and have the user cloning the repo locally. i think it's better to have working examples in our docs and then contrib upstream to improve the upstream docs, and when those are improved we can point to them directly.

Reviewer 3: Makes sense, let's keep it then. Can you open an issue for this on the https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io repo?

Author: added https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/370

Author: also added for rbac: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/2274

Run an Opentelemetry Collector container to receive traces either from the [installed host](#receive-traces-from-host), or from [other containers](#receive-traces-from-other-containers).

##### Receive Traces From Host

> - Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's otlp receiver and datadog exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's otlp receiver and datadog exporter.
```

> - Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's otlp receiver and datadog exporter.

Reviewer 3: I think https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/9529#discussion_r561337521 applies here too

Author: will update

> - Use a published docker image such as [`otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest`](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tags)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose a published docker image such as [`otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest`](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tags).
```

Reviewer: Also, move link to bottom of the file.

> - OpenTelemetry Traces are sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector over TCP or UDP on a number of ports, which must be exposed on the container.  By default traces are sent over `OTLP/gRPC on port 55680`, but common protocols and their ports include: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Determine which ports to open on your container. OpenTelemetry Traces are sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector over TCP or UDP on a number of ports, which must be exposed on the container.  By default traces are sent over OTLP/gRPC on port `55680`, but common protocols and their ports include: 
```

  ```
  Zipkin/HTTP on port 9411
  Jaeger/gRPC on port 14250
  Jaeger/HTTP on port 14268
  Jaeger/Compact on port 6831 (UDP)
  OTLP/gRPC on port 55680
  OTLP/HTTP on port 55681

>   ```

Reviewer: This should be a bulleted list, in plain text (except the port numbers, which can be in monospace/single backticks)

>   ```

Reviewer 3: I think we should rely on official OpenTelemetry docs here. This is not Datadog-specific and it is more likely to be up to date on the official docs.

Author: I couldn't find an organized list within their docs. This would also fall into the bucket of, happy to try to fix upstream but would prefer to leave this in our docs for now until upstream is in a better place

> - Run the container with the configured ports and an `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the container with the configured ports and an `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. For example:
```

  ```
   $ docker run \
    -p 55680:55680 \
    -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otel/config.yaml \
    otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest
  ```
  

> - Configure your application with the appropriate Resource attributes for unified service tagging by adding the metadata [described here](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configure your application with the appropriate resource attributes for unified service tagging by [adding metadata](/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)
```
For links to other pages, we gather links at the bottom of the page, and use numbers in the text. So you would change (url) to [##] here, and add [##]: url at the bottom of the file.

> ##### Receive Traces From Other Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Receive traces from other containers
```

> - Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's otlp receiver and datadog exporter.

Reviewer: Similar to the previous section, make these steps a numbered list instead of bullets, and move link URLs to bottom of the markdown file.

- Configure your application with the appropriate Resource attributes for unified service tagging by adding the metadata [described here](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/open_standards/#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)

> - Create a docker network 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a docker network:
```

  `docker network create <NETWORK_NAME>`
  

> - Run the OpenTelemetry Collector container and Application container in the same network. *Note*: When running the application container, ensure the environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_SPAN_ENDPOINT` is configured to use the appropriate hostname for the Collector. In the example below this would be `opentelemetry-collector`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run the OpenTelemetry Collector container and application container in the same network. *Note*: When running the application container, ensure the environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_SPAN_ENDPOINT` is configured to use the appropriate hostname for the collector. In the example below, this is `opentelemetry-collector`
```

 
  ```
  # Datadog Agent
  docker run -d --name opentelemetry-collector \
            --network <NETWORK_NAME> \
            -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
            -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \

>             -v /sys/fs/cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need these for the OpenTelemetry Collector

            -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otel/config.yaml \

>             otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest

Reviewer 3: If we keep this and we don't rely on the official docs we can remove the tag here since it will pick `latest` by default
```suggestion
            otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
```

  # Application
  docker run -d --name app \
            --network <NETWORK_NAME> \
            -e OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_SPAN_ENDPOINT=http://opentelemetry-collector:55680 \
            company/app:latest
  ```

#### Kubernetes

> The OpenTelemetry Collector can be run in two types of [deployment scenarios](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#deployment). First, as an OpenTelemetry Collector "agent" running on the same host as the application in a sidecar or daemonset. Second, as a standalone service, e.g. a container or deployment, typically per cluster, datacenter or region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector can be run in two types of [deployment scenarios](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#deployment). 

- As an OpenTelemetry Collector "agent" running on the same host as the application in a sidecar or daemonset; or 
- As a standalone service, for example a container or deployment, typically per-cluster, -datacenter or -region.
```

Author: ooo this is nifty formatting

> In order to accurately track the appropriate metadata in Datadog for information and billing purposes, it is recommended the OpenTelemetry Collector be run at least in agent mode on each of the Kubernetes Nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accurately track the appropriate metadata in Datadog, run the OpenTelemetry Collector in agent mode on each of the Kubernetes nodes.
```

> - When deploying the OpenTelemetry Collector as a Daemonset, refer to [the example configuration below](#opentelemetry-kubernetes-example-collector-configuration) as a guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying the OpenTelemetry Collector as a daemonset, refer to [the example configuration below](#opentelemetry-kubernetes-example-collector-configuration) as a guide.
```

> - On the application container, use the downward API to pull the host IP; the application container needs an environment variable that points to status.hostIP. The OpenTelemetry Collector container Agent expects this to be named `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_SPAN_ENDPOINT`. Use the [below example snippet](#opentelemetry-kubernetes-example-application-configuration) as a guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the application container, use the downward API to pull the host IP. The application container needs an environment variable that points to `status.hostIP`. The OpenTelemetry Collector container Agent expects this to be named `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_SPAN_ENDPOINT`. Use the [below example snippet](#opentelemetry-kubernetes-example-application-configuration) as a guide.
```

> ##### OpenTelemetry Kubernetes Example Collector Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Example Kubernetes collector configuration
```

> 

Reviewer: oof, this is too long. Is there an example in a public github repo somewhere that we could link to instead?

Reviewer 3: This example ultimately comes from [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/master/examples/k8s/otel-config.yaml) after adding the k8s_tagger and the resourcedetectionprocessor so that we have access to Kubernetes metadata.

I think we can rewrite the section to say 

1. that we recommend using the Kubernetes processor and 
2. how to set up the Kubernetes processor.

Other Kubernetes config should (at least ideally) be on the official OpenTelemetry docs.  
(2) should also be on the official OpenTelemetry docs (someone added a TODO [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/9f137ea75d249631c411b9d845e83a179032a5b8/processor/k8sprocessor/doc.go#L26-L32)) but since it is missing and we want to have this docs up soon I suggest we write something here and try to move it to the upstream docs later.

Author: Makes sense. i'm gonna push up this config to an example file in our `datadogexporter` directory within opentelemetry-collector-contrib repo, link to that file, and then we can use this section to highlight the key datadog specific details. that should shorten the length and mimics our in-app k8s setup docs

Author: working through how to highlight the key sections with relevant datadog specific details, then will push up the commits

```
---
# Give admin rights to the default account
# so that k8s_tagger can fetch info
# RBAC Config Here

> ---

Reviewer 3: This RBAC config should ideally be [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/9f137ea75d249631c411b9d845e83a179032a5b8/processor/k8sprocessor/doc.go#L26-L28) and we should just link to it

Author: makes sense

Reviewer 3: Can you open an issue on the contrib repo for this too?

      containers:
      - command:
          - "/otelcontribcol"
          - "--config=/conf/otel-collectorcollector-config.yaml"
          - "--log-level=debug"
        image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest
        name: otel-collector
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 1
            memory: 2Gi
          requests:
            cpu: 200m
            memory: 400Mi
        ports:
        - containerPort: 55679 # Default endpoint for ZPages.
        - containerPort: 55680 # Default endpoint for OpenTelemetry receiver.
        - containerPort: 8888  # Default endpoint for querying metrics.
        volumeMounts:
        - name: otel-collector-config-vol
          mountPath: /conf
        livenessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /
            port: 13133 # Health Check extension default port.
        readinessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /
            port: 13133 # Health Check extension default port.
      volumes:
        - configMap:
            name: otel-collector-conf
            items:
              - key: otel-collector-config
                path: otel-collector-config.yaml
          name: otel-collector-config-vol
```

> ##### Opentelemetry Kubernetes Example Application Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Example Kubernetes application configuration
```

      exporters: [datadog/api]
```

### Environment specific setup

#### Host

1. Download the appropriate binary from [the project repository latest release][11].

2. Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's OTLP Receiver and Datadog Exporter.

> 3. Run on the host with the configration yaml file set via the `--config` parameter. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the download on the host, specifying the configration YAML file in the `--config` parameter. For example:
```

>   ```
>     otelcontribcol_linux_amd64 --config otel_collector_config.yaml
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
    otelcontribcol_linux_amd64 --config otel_collector_config.yaml
    ```
```

#### Docker

Run an Opentelemetry Collector container to receive traces either from the [installed host](#receive-traces-from-host), or from [other containers](#receive-traces-from-other-containers).

> ##### Receive Traces from host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Receive traces from host
```

1. Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's OTLP receiver and the Datadog exporter.

> 2. Choose a published docker image such as [`otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest`][12].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose a published Docker image such as [`otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest`][12].
```

> 3.  Determine which ports to open on your container. OpenTelemetry Traces are sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector over TCP or UDP on a number of ports, which must be exposed on the container.  By default traces are sent over OTLP/gRPC on port `55680`, but common protocols and their ports include: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Determine which ports to open on your container. OpenTelemetry traces are sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector over TCP or UDP on a number of ports, which must be exposed on the container.  By default, traces are sent over OTLP/gRPC on port `55680`, but common protocols and their ports include: 
```

>   - Zipkin/HTTP on port `9411`
>   - Jaeger/gRPC on port `14250`
>   - Jaeger/HTTP on port `14268`
>   - Jaeger/Compact on port (UDP) `6831` 
>   - OTLP/gRPC on port `55680`
>   - OTLP/HTTP on port `55681`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Zipkin/HTTP on port `9411`
    - Jaeger/gRPC on port `14250`
    - Jaeger/HTTP on port `14268`
    - Jaeger/Compact on port (UDP) `6831` 
    - OTLP/gRPC on port `55680`
    - OTLP/HTTP on port `55681`
```

4. Run the container with the configured ports and an `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. For example:

  ```
   $ docker run \
    -p 55680:55680 \
    -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otel/config.yaml \

>     otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
```

Reviewer: if we change this, do we also change line 121?

Reviewer 3: Yes, good catch!

>   ```
>    $ docker run \
>     -p 55680:55680 \
>     -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otel/config.yaml \
>     otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
   $ docker run \
    -p 55680:55680 \
    -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otel/config.yaml \
    otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
    ```
```

> 5. Configure your application with the appropriate Resource attributes for unified service tagging by [adding metadata](#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configure your application with the appropriate resource attributes for unified service tagging by [adding metadata](#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)
```

##### Receive traces from other containers

> 1. Create a `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's otlp receiver and datadog exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an `otel_collector_config.yaml` file. [Here is an example template](#ingesting-opentelemetry-traces-with-the-collector) to get started. It enables the collector's OTLP receiver and Datadog exporter.
```

> 2. Configure your application with the appropriate Resource attributes for unified service tagging by adding the metadata [described here](#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure your application with the appropriate resource attributes for unified service tagging by adding the metadata [described here](#opentelemetry-collector-datadog-exporter)
```

3. Create a docker network:

>   `docker network create <NETWORK_NAME>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
  docker network create <NETWORK_NAME>
    ```
```

> 4. Run the OpenTelemetry Collector container and application container in the same network. *Note*: When running the application container, ensure the environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` is configured to use the appropriate hostname for the OpenTelemetry Collector. In the example below, this is `opentelemetry-collector`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the OpenTelemetry Collector container and application container in the same network. **Note**: When running the application container, ensure the environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` is configured to use the appropriate hostname for the OpenTelemetry Collector. In the example below, this is `opentelemetry-collector`.
```

 
  ```
  # Datadog Agent
  docker run -d --name opentelemetry-collector \
            --network <NETWORK_NAME> \
            -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otel/config.yaml \
            otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib

  # Application
  docker run -d --name app \
            --network <NETWORK_NAME> \
            -e OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=http://opentelemetry-collector:55680 \
            company/app:latest
  ```

#### Kubernetes

The OpenTelemetry Collector can be run in two types of [deployment scenarios][13].

> - As an OpenTelemetry Collector "agent" running on the same host as the application in a sidecar or daemonset; or 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As an OpenTelemetry Collector agent running on the same host as the application in a sidecar or daemonset; or 
```

- As a standalone service, e.g. a container or deployment, typically per-cluster, -datacenter or -region.

To accurately track the appropriate metadata in Datadog, run the OpenTelemetry Collector in agent mode on each of the Kubernetes nodes.

When deploying the OpenTelemetry Collector as a daemonset, refer to [the example configuration below](#opentelemetry-kubernetes-example-collector-configuration) as a guide.

> On the application container, use the downward API to pull the host IP. The application container needs an environment variable that points to `status.hostIP`. The OpenTelemetry Application SDKs expects this to be named `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`. Use the [below example snippet](#opentelemetry-kubernetes-example-application-configuration) as a guide.

Author: sdks expect...updated!

##### Example Kubernetes OpenTelemetry Collector configuration

A full example k8s manifest for deploying the OpenTelemetry Collector as both daemonset and standalone collector [can be found here][14]. Depending on your environment this example may be modified, however the important sections to note specific to Datadog are as follows.

> 1. The example demonstrates deploying the OpenTelemetry Collectors in ["agent" mode via daemonset][15], which collect relevant k8s node and pod specific metadata, and then forward telemetry data to an OpenTelemetry Collector in ["standalone collector" mode][16]. This OpenTelemetry Collector in "standalone collector" mode then exports to the Datadog backend. A diagram of this deployment model [can be found here][17].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The example demonstrates deploying the OpenTelemetry Collectors in [agent mode via daemonset][15], which collect relevant k8s node and pod specific metadata, and then forward telemetry data to an OpenTelemetry Collector in [standalone collector mode][16]. This OpenTelemetry Collector in standalone collector mode then exports to the Datadog backend. See [this diagram of this deployment model][17].
```

> 2. For OpenTelemetry Collectors deployed as agent via daemonset, in the Daemonset, `spec.containers.env` should use the downward API to capture `status.podIP` and add it as part of the `OTEL_RESOURCE` environment variable. This is used by the OpenTelemetry Collector's `resourcedetection` and `k8s_tagger` processors, which should be included along with a `batch` processor and added to the `traces` pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For OpenTelemetry Collectors deployed as agent via daemonset, in the daemonset, `spec.containers.env` should use the downward API to capture `status.podIP` and add it as part of the `OTEL_RESOURCE` environment variable. This is used by the OpenTelemetry Collector's `resourcedetection` and `k8s_tagger` processors, which should be included along with a `batch` processor and added to the `traces` pipeline.
```

> - In the DaemonSet's `spec.containers.env` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the daemonset's `spec.containers.env` section:
```

```
  # ...
  env:
     # Get pod ip so that k8s_tagger can tag resources
    - name: POD_IP
      valueFrom:
        fieldRef:
          fieldPath: status.podIP
      # This is picked up by the resource detector
    - name: OTEL_RESOURCE
      value: "k8s.pod.ip=$(POD_IP)"
  # ...
```

> - In the `otel-agent-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-agent-config` `processors` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the `otel-agent-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-agent-config` `processors` section:
```

```
  # ...
  # The resource detector injects the pod IP
  # to every metric so that the k8s_tagger can
  # fetch information afterwards.
  resourcedetection:
    detectors: [env]
    timeout: 5s
    override: false
  # The k8s_tagger in the Agent is in passthrough mode
  # so that it only tags with the minimal info for the
  # collector k8s_tagger to complete
  k8s_tagger:
    passthrough: true
  batch:
  # ...
```

> - In the `otel-agent-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-agent-config` `service.pipelines.traces` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the `otel-agent-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-agent-config` `service.pipelines.traces` section:
```

```
  # ...
  # resourcedetection must come before k8s_tagger
  processors: [resourcedetection, k8s_tagger, batch]
  # ...

> ```

Reviewer: For the code fence blocks above, you'll want to intent them 4 (I think) spaces so that they are all part of step 2. Would need a docs staging build to know for sure that will work (can only do that from a branch not a fork, or from a local build).

Reviewer: Also, these are yaml, right? Can we add `yaml` after the three ticks, for some formatting on the website?

Author: yuup, updated!

> 3. For any OpenTelemetry-Collector's in "standalone collector" mode, which receive traces from downstream collectors and export to Datadog's backend, include a `batch` processor configured with a `timeout` of `10s` as well as the `k8s_tagger` enabled. These should be included along with the `datadog` exporter and added to the `traces` pipeline. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For OpenTelemetry Collectors in standalone collector mode, which receive traces from downstream collectors and export to Datadog's backend, include a `batch` processor configured with a `timeout` of `10s` as well as the `k8s_tagger` enabled. These should be included along with the `datadog` exporter and added to the `traces` pipeline. 
```

> - In the `otel-collector-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-collector-config` `processors` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the `otel-collector-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-collector-config` `processors` section:
```

```
  # ...
  batch:
    timeout: 10s
  k8s_tagger:
  # ...
```

> - In the `otel-collector-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-collector-config` `exporters` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the `otel-collector-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-collector-config` `exporters` section:
```

```
  exporters:
    datadog:
      api:
        key: <YOUR_API_KEY>
```

> - In the `otel-agent-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-agent-config` `service.pipelines.traces` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the `otel-agent-conf` ConfigMap's `data.otel-agent-config` `service.pipelines.traces` section:
```

```
  # ...
  processors: [k8s_tagger, batch]
  exporters: [datadog]
  # ...
```

##### Example Kubernetes OpenTelemetry application configuration

> In addition to the OpenTelemetry Collector configuration, ensure OpenTelemetry SDKs installed in an application transmit telemetry data to the Collector by configuring the environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` with the host IP. Use the downward API to pull the host IP, and set it as an environment variable, which is then interpolated when setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the OpenTelemetry Collector configuration, ensure that OpenTelemetry SDKs that are installed in an application transmit telemetry data to the collector, by configuring the environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` with the host IP. Use the downward API to pull the host IP, and set it as an environment variable, which is then interpolated when setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable:
```
